So, in the short period I have owned this Surface Pro 7 (intel i7, 256gb, 16gb ram) I have come across some good things, and some rather bd things. I will go over them below.Here are some good things: the touch screen works great as long as you don't have a glass screen protector as I do, where touch becomes rather spotty at best, but the pen I have which isn't Microsoft's pen, still works great. Performance is decent, does get quite hot, but otherwise does light gaming and multitasking quite well. I have upgraded to Windows 11 in which mostly works great. The magnets are strong and keeps the pen, charger, and keyboard in really well, and the screen resolution is honestly great. Last thing, screen off time, like putting it to sleep uses vary little battery power, can be sleep for days and only lose maybe 20% battery at most. Battery charger I really do like, being attached magnetically and easily pulled off to not drag the device with it in case of snagging, and the USB port on the power supply I do use for my phone or USB fan, so it is quite useful.Now for the bad things. Battery life is almost none existent. Microsoft claims 10.5 hours battery life through video playback, I find it has 3-4 hours at best with battery saver and other battery saving measures taken, including using light browsers. Battery seems to last a little longer when just sitting idle, maybe 5 or 6 hours at best doing nothing but just sitting there with the screen on. I don't recommend using a glass screen protector, just because touch sensitivity suffers greatly when it really shouldn't. Some windows programs also do not seem to work at all, like recalibrating the touch screen doesn't actually open anything, at times will ask you to open with another program, when it is a base windows function that does not need another program to open. Screen colour/brightness calibration is not great, as it seems HDR is always on when it doesn't show the device supports it, meaning basic browsing looks bad unless you recalibrate the colour/brightness which turning up the gamma to about 65% seems to overcome the issue and screen looks the way it should. Other keyboards that can use the keyboard attachment pins on the tablet can not simply be used, they need to be connected via bluetooth, and only Microsoft's keyboard works without bluetooth which I think is a bad thing, forcing you to overpay for a keyboard that doesn't need a battery or bluetooth to work. Also, for the life of me, can not figure out why Microsoft edge keeps dimming when viewing content in full screen, even though I have all the automatic screen adjustments turned off, making watching youtube videos extremely annoying since it dims the screen to 50%, which isn't bright enough in a room that is lit by sun light.If I had to make recommendations to improve this product (which most of these issues I hear carry on to the Surface Pro 8) would be:- larger battery capacity- proper software to adjust touch sensitivity for those with glass protectors- use AMD Ryzen CPU's for their power efficiency and performance, allowing for better overall power efficiency which means the device would last longer on battery power.- lower device and accessary cost as what you get can be matched with cheaper devices- allow manufacturers to create keyboards that can be used without bluetooth and not have to be powered by their own battery- allow Type C charging, as for me I can not get the device to charge over type C which would be better as I always have a type C charger with me for my phone and other devices.- windows 10 and 11 should have a tablet version, like Home (T) for example, because implementing touch and pen and other things for tablets in the base OS does not work properly as stated above, touch settings do not open at all and I have an unmodified version of Windows 11, also other settings do not like to stay applied sometimes, which I hear varies as everyone's experience has been different in regards to what settings work, and do not work, or just don't work properly.- speaker quality is a let down honestly, my Samsung Galaxy S10+ has much better sounding speakers on it, as well as my Samsung Galaxy Tab A7, which is Samsung's budget tablet for $220, which I expected more out of a device with an asking price of $1600+ which I wouldn't have bothered if not for other payment options.I am making this review on my Surface Pro 7, using Microsoft's Surface Pro Keyboard cover which I still believe paying over $100 for a keyboard with some magnets and a hard back with OK backlighting is ridiculous, and I am not paying $100 for the Microsoft pen when I have a $35 pen from UOGIC that works as good, if not better, and it can be recharged via USB, where the Microsoft pen requires a AAAA battery that can not be recharged in the pen, yet this cheaper pen has all the same functions and simply works without needing bluetooth, and has strong magnets to stay put on the left side of the device.So if you are considering buying this device, know that you are in for spending way more money then you should on Microsoft brand accessories, unless you choose other brands like UOGIC for the pen, and maybe Finite for the keyboard which I hear have pretty good keyboards, still a bit pricy around $80+ CAD, and require bluetooth and charging over time. I do not recommend buying this without a screen protector since replacing the screen is a lot more costly then replacing a glass protector, despite some touch issues here and there, and I also recommend buying a carrying case or sleeve to store the device in when not using it, as dust and other stuff does get inside the back air slots for the fan if your device has a fan in it like mine, just to keep dust from building up inside that can hinder the cooling capabilities of the extremely power inefficient intel CPU which on my device, has reached 110c when pushing the CPU, and actually could burn myself by touching the back panel behind the camera, which seriously wouldn't have been that much of an issue if Microsoft would simply stop using intel CPU's and use AMD Ryzen instead, as they are more power efficient, meaning they use less power but output the same, if not, better performance, meaning less heat to deal with, and a longer lasting battery, so be prepared for how hot this device can get, and don't be surprised if the heat eventually causes issues with the device over time.So, I am not rating this above 3 stars. I can only recommend this really for those who can pay for it monthly, and those who need an alternative to a laptop or desktop, and also have a creativity side. I don't recommend it to those who may want to try windows on a tablet device, or just want something other then a standard laptop. In my use, I am taking up drawing, I also move around a lot and a larger laptop does not suit me well, I also need a windows device as my Samsung Tab A7 proved to me I can not do everything I need on Android, and I would rather die then use anything apple related, and this having a 12.3inch screen, 16gb ram, 256gb internal storage which I also have a 128gb micro SD card in it for more storage, and the basic intel CPU does allow me to do what I need pretty well, and overall I can say I am happy with the device despite how many things I have to complain about it. It is a device I will be taking with me places, it is a device I can do my work on well, it is a device perfect size to not be too small, but not be too big either, it isn't too heavy, it is windows that at least works enough to get stuff done with, so I hope this will help those choose if they really want this device, or should look for another, or get this device but use other brand's accessories which save on money, and still give a pleasant experience, also warn those who choose they want one, about what to possibly expect.
With the type cover on, it feels as compact as an A4 notebook. It's my first Surface Pro (I had the first gen Surface Book back in 2016) and I love the kickstand and type cover. It really makes this such a versatile little device. I've had no trouble with basic productivity and use with art apps (everything runs well, though it does get hot and battery life isn't great). Typing on it is a joy, trackpad is good. That said, this is a secondary computing device for me, my main machine is an Intel 16' MacBook Pro which has horrible battery life and is too big and heavy to carry around so it pretty much stays on my desk. I also have an iPad Pro 13' with the Magic Keyboard but honestly the file system is lacking and the Surface fills in the space between the two nicely. I think if it were to be your daily driver, the screen is just a tad too small. An external monitor for a home/ office set up for when you're not on the go makes this an ideal device. The new Slim Pen 2 is also really, really good, and works superbly with this. On par with the Apple Pencil now, I'd say.I wish it had more ports, but Thunderbolt is great to have for high res external monitors and maybe an eGPU down the line. I also wish it could charge faster with regular USB C chargers, but I guess you get an extra port if you use the Surface charger. Battery life is on the low side, and it gets warm, but honestly I don't have any major complaints. It should have been priced lower or included the type cover and Pen, but otherwise I'm happy with it.Small, light, great pen input, decent performance and incredibly versatile- love this.
good reliable performance
I am a student-teacher. As such I have to take notes, as well as make lessons for students. This device is fantastic for note-taking and creating documents for schools. The screen is beautiful, and while I wish the bezels were as slim as they were on the surface pro x, I think the bezels are still fine and you tend not to notice them when you're using the device. With a resolution of 2736x1824 (yes, it's a weird resolution) on a 12.3 screen, everything is tack sharp and it has good colour accuracy. I do have a screen calibration tool and did notice quite the difference after calibrating it, but most people will be fine with the base settings.I wouldn't recommend getting the base model (i3 and 4GB ram) since let's be honest, a 4GB ram shouldn't even exist at this point. I think the i5 is the sweet spot, since the i7 isn't really that much better, along with whatever storage option you think you'd need. I'm okay with 256GB. Also, note it does have expandable storage via a micro SD card up to 1TB. The performance on this device is also great about 95% of the time. I get a few weird issues and stutters from time to time, but that is most likely due to windows being windows.The weakest point of this device would definitely be the battery life. While there are worse options out there, I do wish that the battery was slightly better. Having a lot of virtual meetings given the pandemic requires a lot of webcam use and multitasking, and I find that after a couple of hours the battery is already around 30% - with battery-saving mode enabled. When you're not doing that, and you're doing just standard web-browsing and media consumption, you'll be looking at a solid 5-6 hours minimum at acceptable brightness levels.Another negative is that while yes, this device is great, but if you want the full experience, you still have to purchase the type cover, which is another $150+ and the surface pen, which is another $100. So keep in mind that whatever option you choose, you're going to be spending another $300 after taxes.Overall though, writing notes on this device is fantastic, especially if you already use Microsoft 365. I think you can get by with the battery life, and you won't be disappointed by the performance unless you are a heavy user.
The pictures are Platinum. Description is graphite. Received platinum. Invoice is for graphite. Irresponsible Amazon and seller Electroarena wasting time and money. Now I have to return this just to get the correct invoice. Which by the way won't happen because graphite isn't even available in India for this model.The product is AMAZING. I just upgraded from 2017 surface pro (5). This is a full laptop plus tablet and worth every bit they charge for it. I used the SP5 for 4 years as my only laptop and tablet and it was such an awesome journey. If you want a lightweight all in one product look no more, 100% go for this one.edit - the seller [electroarena, we love you] gave the correct invoice once i figured out how to actually contact them, sadly amazon cc wasnt very helpful there, they kept asking to return the product, which is not possible because the agent wont take back a platinum SP8 when the return order says graphite.. i have been in that pickle before with another wrong color item. i forgot how i found the link but it was somewhere in the orders page.update on the device  - loving every minute with it. MS has improved so many things since SP(5). I cant afford the keyboard+ new pen 50k. so using with a foldable bluetooth keyboard i found on amazon. Old pen isnt  working well on SP8 so probably will have to change the tip? or buy the new one pen alone, without the keyboard. The lines are interrupted on SP8. it is still smooth on SP (5). So i guess the old pen is not compatible may be.The windows 11 is awesome. Im using mostly as a laptop, making PPTs, editing documents, reading pdsfs, conducting large zoom meetings, editing videos, posting on YT.. everything is going smoothly. I dont play big games, so no idea. Bluestacks is smooth.Tablet feature when travelling, consuming media.Battery is solid, lasts a few days with all this going on. Charger is good, a minimal humming noise might be there, i researched, its normal.Edit after few months useReplaced pen tip, older pen is working well on sp8.Got a tomtac case, absolutely loving it. Complete laptop experience, complete tablet experience. Very smooth. MS has finally reached "there".
I suggest that buyers beware and check carefully once you receive your Surface.This particular Surface sent to me as a Surface Pro 8 with Win 11 was actually a Surface ProModel 1796 with WIN 10 and  Ver 21H2 installed.Search and no where could I find what MODEL this is. It all goes back to Model 1796.What is clear is that it is NOT a Surface Pro 8 and the CPU does not support Windows 11.Let's not even open the pandora of Intel CPU's.
This seller is trying to pass off Surface Pro 7s as SP8s. If you research the model # & dive deep enough into the system settings you find that the labels & changeable system name are cheap attempts to defraud buyers. Being a new Surface user, I didn’t have a clue until I tried to connect my Signature keyboard. They are not compatible. After a lot of digging & a trip to a local retailer, it was obvious what had happened. When I went to leave feedback & get a return label, there were many reviews saying exactly the same thing! AMAZON should revoke this vendor! I only hope I don’t have a fight getting my money back!
Its everything promised, its light fast and good looking. A bit expensive but worth every penny.
What should I do, buy a extension 3pin convertor or buy a complete new cable with 3 pin . very confusing. Rest is fine.